# Patch-CNN based Deep Learning Model for Cryo-Electron Mi-croscopy Image Quality Classification

***This is sample dataset of cryo-electron micrography image for the paper "Patch-CNN based Deep Learning Model for Cryo-Electron Mi-croscopy Image Quality Classification".***

***You can download the dataset by clicking "code" -> "download ZIP".***
# Abstract
Cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) is widely used for single particle analysis to de-termine the structure of macromolecular complexes. Although this approach has distinct ad-vantages over other techniques for structure determination, directional incompleteness and low signal-to-noise ratio of images hinder the achievement of high-resolution 3D reconstruction. Hence, sorting good images early from the entire dataset is crucial for efficient image processing. However, the image quality assessment depends on the subjective decision made by the researcher, which may cause unsatisfactory results. For the cryo-EM image quality assessment and screening, we developed an artificial intelligence (AI) model to classify the images as good-, moderate-, and bad-quality. For the classification, we proposed a patch-based convolutional neural networks, which were then applied with a weighted ensemble approach. Our proposed model provided the following accuracy metrics: sensitivity, 88.74%; specificity, 94.89%; accuracy, 92.69%; F1-score, 0.88; and AUROC, 0.9140. Regarding the AUROC, our model provided higher value than any other models: whole-image approach (0.9022), without augmentation (0.8918), with additional aug-mentation of zooming (0.9032), with additional augmentation of rotation (0.8924) and without denoising (0.8492). We further deployed our proposed AI model in the web application where a user can freely upload cryo-EM images to automatically assess image quality (http://ai-wm.khu.ac.kr/Cryoem_classification). 
